<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="" xml:lang="">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, user-scalable=yes" />
  <title>interface-1.gfm</title>
  <style type="text/css">
      code{white-space: pre-wrap;}
      span.smallcaps{font-variant: small-caps;}
      span.underline{text-decoration: underline;}
      div.line-block{white-space: pre-line;}
      div.column{display: inline-block; vertical-align: top; width: 50%;}
  </style>
  <style type="text/css">
a.sourceLine { display: inline-block; line-height: 1.25; }
a.sourceLine { pointer-events: none; color: inherit; text-decoration: inherit; }
a.sourceLine:empty { height: 1.2em; position: absolute; }
.sourceCode { overflow: visible; }
code.sourceCode { white-space: pre; position: relative; }
div.sourceCode { margin: 1em 0; }
pre.sourceCode { margin: 0; }
@media screen {
div.sourceCode { overflow: auto; }
}
@media print {
code.sourceCode { white-space: pre-wrap; }
a.sourceLine { text-indent: -1em; padding-left: 1em; }
}
pre.numberSource a.sourceLine
  { position: relative; }
pre.numberSource a.sourceLine:empty
  { position: absolute; }
pre.numberSource a.sourceLine::before
  { content: attr(data-line-number);
    position: absolute; left: -5em; text-align: right; vertical-align: baseline;
    border: none; pointer-events: all;
    -webkit-touch-callout: none; -webkit-user-select: none;
    -khtml-user-select: none; -moz-user-select: none;
    -ms-user-select: none; user-select: none;
    padding: 0 4px; width: 4em;
    color: #aaaaaa;
  }
pre.numberSource { margin-left: 3em; border-left: 1px solid #aaaaaa;  padding-left: 4px; }
div.sourceCode
  {  }
@media screen {
a.sourceLine::before { text-decoration: underline; }
}
code span.al { color: #ff0000; font-weight: bold; } /* Alert */
code span.an { color: #60a0b0; font-weight: bold; font-style: italic; } /* Annotation */
code span.at { color: #7d9029; } /* Attribute */
code span.bn { color: #40a070; } /* BaseN */
code span.bu { } /* BuiltIn */
code span.cf { color: #007020; font-weight: bold; } /* ControlFlow */
code span.ch { color: #4070a0; } /* Char */
code span.cn { color: #880000; } /* Constant */
code span.co { color: #60a0b0; font-style: italic; } /* Comment */
code span.cv { color: #60a0b0; font-weight: bold; font-style: italic; } /* CommentVar */
code span.do { color: #ba2121; font-style: italic; } /* Documentation */
code span.dt { color: #902000; } /* DataType */
code span.dv { color: #40a070; } /* DecVal */
code span.er { color: #ff0000; font-weight: bold; } /* Error */
code span.ex { } /* Extension */
code span.fl { color: #40a070; } /* Float */
code span.fu { color: #06287e; } /* Function */
code span.im { } /* Import */
code span.in { color: #60a0b0; font-weight: bold; font-style: italic; } /* Information */
code span.kw { color: #007020; font-weight: bold; } /* Keyword */
code span.op { color: #666666; } /* Operator */
code span.ot { color: #007020; } /* Other */
code span.pp { color: #bc7a00; } /* Preprocessor */
code span.sc { color: #4070a0; } /* SpecialChar */
code span.ss { color: #bb6688; } /* SpecialString */
code span.st { color: #4070a0; } /* String */
code span.va { color: #19177c; } /* Variable */
code span.vs { color: #4070a0; } /* VerbatimString */
code span.wa { color: #60a0b0; font-weight: bold; font-style: italic; } /* Warning */
  </style>
  <!--[if lt IE 9]>
    <script src="//cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/html5shiv/3.7.3/html5shiv-printshiv.min.js"></script>
  <![endif]-->
</head>
<body>
<h1 id="abc2svg-interface-1">abc2svg interface 1</h1>
<p>This document describes the interface of the abc2svg core version <code>1</code> (abc2svg-1.js).</p>
<h2 id="initialization">Initialization</h2>
<p>The abc2svg core may be included in html/xhtml documents by:</p>
<pre><code>&lt;script src=&quot;http://moinejf.free.fr/js/abc2svg-1.js&quot; type=&quot;text/javascript&quot;&gt;&lt;/script&gt;
</code></pre>
<p>Before any first or new ABC to SVG translation, an instance of the class <code>Abc</code> must be created:</p>
<pre><code>   var abc = new Abc(user)
</code></pre>
<p>The <code>user</code> argument of this function is a javascript Object which must or may contain:</p>
<ul>
<li><p><strong>img_out</strong> (optional):<br />
Callback function which called when a new SVG image has been generated.</p>
<p>This function receives one argument, a string, which is usually a SVG image. This function may be absent when no graphic generation is needed as, for example, for playing only.</p></li>
<li><p><strong>errbld</strong> (mandatory if no errmsg):<br />
Callback function which is called when some error has been found during the ABC parsing or the SVG generation</p>
<p>This callback function which is called when some error has been found during the ABC parsing or the SVG generation.</p>
<p>This function receives 5 arguments:</p>
<ul>
<li><p><em>severity_level</em> (integer)<br />
level of the message</p>
<ul>
<li>It may be:<br />
<code>0</code>: warning <code>1</code>: error other value: fatal error</li>
</ul></li>
<li><p><em>message</em> (String)<br />
Text of the error.</p></li>
<li><p><em>file_name</em> (String):<br />
The name of the abc file, used for reporting. The file name may be <code>undefined</code>.</p></li>
<li><p><em>line_number and column_number</em> (integer):<br />
Position of the error in the ABC source.</p>
<p>This information may not be known in which case line_number is <code>undefined</code>.</p>
<p>The line and column numbers start from 0.</p></li>
</ul></li>
<li><p><strong>errmsg</strong> (mandatory if no errbld)<br />
Callback function which is called when some error has been found during the ABC parsing or the SVG generation</p>
<p>This function receives 3 arguments:</p>
<ul>
<li><p><em>message</em><br />
Text of the error.</p>
<p>Generally, this text includes a reference of the error in the ABC source format:</p>
<pre><code>file_name &quot;:&quot; line_number &quot;:&quot; column_number &quot; &quot; error_message
</code></pre></li>
<li><p><em>line_number</em> and <em>column_number</em><br />
Position of the error in the ABC source, same as the corresponding argument in <code>errbld()</code>.</p></li>
</ul></li>
<li><p><strong>read_file</strong> (mandatory)<br />
Callback function which is called to read a file.</p>
<p>This function receives one argument, the <em>name</em> of the file as a string.</p>
<p>It must return the file content as a string.</p>
<p>It is called when a <code>%%abc-include</code> command has been found in the ABC source.</p></li>
<li><p><strong>anno_start</strong> (optional)<br />
Callback function for setting ABC references in the SVG images.</p>
<p>This function is called just before the generation of a music element.</p>
<p>It receives 7 arguments:</p>
<ul>
<li><em>music_type</em><br />
It is one of <code>annot</code>, <code>bar</code>, <code>clef</code>, <code>gchord</code>, <code>grace</code>, <code>key</code>, <code>meter</code>, <code>note</code>, <code>part</code>, <code>rest</code>, <code>tempo</code>.</li>
<li><em>start_offset</em><br />
Offset of the music element in the ABC source.</li>
<li><em>stop_offset</em><br />
Offset of the end of music element in the ABC source.</li>
<li><em>x</em>, <em>y</em>, <em>w</em>, <em>h</em><br />
Coordinates of a rectangle which covers the music element.</li>
</ul></li>
<li><p><strong>anno_stop</strong> (optional)<br />
Callback function for setting ABC references in the SVG images. This function is called just after the generation of a music element. It receives the same 7 arguments as the callback function <strong>anno_start</strong>.</p></li>
<li><p><strong>get_abcmodel</strong> (optional)<br />
Callback function to get the internal representation of the music just before SVG generation. This function receives 4 arguments:</p>
<ul>
<li><em>tsfirst</em> (object)<br />
First musical symbol in the time sequence.<br />
The symbols are double-linked by time by <code>ts_next</code> / <code>ts_prev</code>.<br />
The start of a new sequence is marked by <code>seqst</code>.</li>
<li><em>voice_tb</em> (array of objects)<br />
Voice table.<br />
The first symbol of a voice is <code>sym</code>.<br />
The symbols are double-linked in a voice by <code>next</code> / <code>prev</code>.</li>
<li><em>music_types</em> (array of strings)<br />
Array giving the symbol type from integer value of the symbol attribute <code>type</code>.</li>
<li><em>info</em> (object)<br />
Text of the information fields (T:, M:, Q:, P:...).<br />
A newline ('\n') separates the appended values.</li>
</ul>
<p>The returned representation is destroyed by the generation, so, either</p>
<ul>
<li>use it immediately before returning from the function, or</li>
<li>unset the <code>user.img_out</code> function.</li>
</ul></li>
<li><p><strong>imagesize</strong> (string)<br />
Define the SVG image size.</p>
<p>When <code>imagesize</code> is not set, the size of the SVG images is the one of a sheet, as defined by %%pagewidth.</p>
<p>When <code>imagesize</code> is defined, it must contain <code>width=&quot;image_width&quot; height=&quot;image_height&quot;</code>, <em>image_width</em> and <em>image_height</em> being any value accepted in the <code>&lt;svg&gt;</code> tag.</p></li>
<li><p><strong>page_format</strong> (boolean)<br />
Group the SVG images into non-page-breakable blocks.</p>
<p>When <code>page_format</code> is not set, only the SVG images are generated. With XHTML output, the images go to the right of the previous ones (inlined images).</p>
<p>When <code>page_format</code> is set, the images are grouped in <code>&lt;div&gt;</code> containers with a class &quot;nobrk&quot;, and a class &quot;newpage&quot; in case of %%newpage.</p></li>
</ul>
<h2 id="abc-to-svg-translation">ABC to SVG translation</h2>
<p>ABC to SVG translation is done calling the Abc method <code>tosvg</code>:</p>
<div class="sourceCode" id="cb4"><pre class="sourceCode javascript"><code class="sourceCode javascript"><a class="sourceLine" id="cb4-1" data-line-number="1"><span class="va">abc</span>.<span class="at">tosvg</span>(file_name<span class="op">,</span> ABC_source<span class="op">,</span> start_offset<span class="op">,</span> end_offset)</a></code></pre></div>
<ul>
<li><p><em>file_name</em><br />
is the name of the ABC source. It is used for information only in error messages.</p></li>
<li><p><em>ABC_source</em><br />
is the ABC source as a (UTF-16) string with the <code>'\n' (\u000a)</code> as the end of line marker.</p></li>
<li><p><em>start_offset</em>, <em>end_offset</em><br />
are the character offsets of the ABC sequence in the ABC_source.</p>
<p>They are optional and their default values are <code>0</code> and <code>ABC_source.length</code></p></li>
</ul>
<p><code>abc.tosvg</code> may be called many times in which case the values set by previous calls are kept.</p>
<p>The ABC source must contain full tunes, i.e. a same tune cannot be continued by a second call to <code>tosvg</code>.</p>
<h2 id="exported-attributes-and-methods-of-the-abc-class">Exported attributes and methods of the Abc class</h2>
<ul>
<li><p><strong>blk_flush</strong>: function to terminate a block of images.<br />
In case of fatal error during the SVG generation, this function may be called in the error callback function to output the last SVG elements.</p>
<p><code>bkl_flush</code> takes no argument.</p></li>
<li><p><strong>out_svg</strong>: function to add text in the current SVG image<br />
It may be used only in the callback functions.</p>
<p>This function expects one mandatory argument:</p>
<ul>
<li><em>text</em> (string)<br />
Text to be added.</li>
</ul></li>
<li><p><strong>sx</strong>: function to convert the x coordinate<br />
This function expects one mandatory argument:</p>
<ul>
<li><em>x</em> (number)<br />
Local x.</li>
</ul>
<p><code>sx</code> returns the <code>x</code> coordinate in the current SVG container.</p></li>
<li><p><strong>sy</strong>: function to convert the y coordinate<br />
This function expects one mandatory argument:</p>
<ul>
<li><em>y</em>: (number)<br />
Local y.</li>
</ul>
<p><code>sy</code> returns the <code>y</code> coordinate in the current SVG container.</p></li>
<li><p><strong>out_sxsy</strong>: function to output x,y coordinates<br />
It may be used only in the callback functions.</p>
<p>This function expects 3 mandatory arguments:</p>
<ul>
<li><em>x</em> (number)<br />
x offset</li>
<li><em>separator</em> (string)<br />
text between x and y in the SVG element</li>
<li><em>y</em> (number)<br />
y offset</li>
</ul></li>
<li><p><strong>sh</strong>: function to convert a height<br />
This function expects one mandatory argument:</p>
<ul>
<li><em>h</em> (number)<br />
Local height.</li>
</ul>
<p><code>sh</code> returns the height in the current SVG container.</p></li>
<li><p><strong>ax</strong>, <strong>ay</strong>, <strong>ah</strong>: function to convert the x coordinate, y coordinate, height<br />
These functions return values relative to the global SVG container.</p>
<p>They may be used in place of <code>sx</code>, <code>sy</code> and <code>sh</code> when elements must be globally added (by <code>out_svg</code>).</p>
<p>When <code>%%pagescale</code> is 1 (default), there is no global container (the coordinates are the ones of the SVG image).</p>
<p>When this is not the case, a global &lt;g&gt; container is added, with the class &quot;g&quot;.</p></li>
</ul>
<h2 id="global-variables">Global variables</h2>
<p>The global variable <code>abc2svg</code> is an object which contains:</p>
<ul>
<li><strong>version</strong><br />
current version of abc2svg</li>
<li><strong>vdate</strong><br />
date of the distribution of current version</li>
</ul>
<p>Version: v1.16.4-18-gc8381c9</p>
</body>
</html>
